# Systems Theory Assignment Summary

Through the various ethical quandaries broken, the various systems together had contributed to perhaps one of the greatest manipulations of the average person in the history of social networks. Through the need of targeted advertising on platforms such as Facebook, Google, and Twitter, these companies have held massive power never seen before. If the power they hold is misused the danger could be great. One of the first doses we saw of this was during the 2016 presidential election, when Facebook data was improperly taken by Cambridge Analytica, then used to target people on the aformentioned platforms to manipulate their vote. Through this targeting, we saw various systems misused for political gain.

The main systems responsible for this are listed in the spreadsheet, and are all interconnected. Facebook as a system was used to both harvest user data and then use that data to create hyperfocused advertisments to manipulate users. While there is no evidence of companies such as Google or Twitter used to harvest user data for this reason, both systems are still used to sell user data (albeit with user consent that comes with using the service). Cambridge Analytica as a company broke Facebook's terms of service to gather this data, improperly using the system, however Facebook still bears some of the blame for allowing this to happen in the first place. All of the mentioned platforms allowed these targeted adverts on their platforms thereby letting their systems be used for non-ethical targeting of user's opinions. Finally, through various political systems such as the Trump Campaign, Russian Govt., Cambridge Analytica, Facebook, Google, and Twitter these systems worked together to manipulate U.S. citizen's & society at large's opinion on various candidates in the 2016 Presidential Election thereby influencing the final outcome.